# Fuel-Level-Detector-and-Controller-using-8051 Micocontroller
A fuel level detector and controller was very essential to prevent wastage of resources as well as to reduce human power in homes, large industries and even in big housing societies. This sytem implemented using 8051 microcontroller. This repository consists source code written in Embedded C as well as snapshot of simulation circuit developed in Proteus 8.11.  
# Working
* The 8051 microcontroller operates on an 11.0592MHz frequency generated by the crystal oscillators. It gets the external 5V power supply in its VCC pin (PIN40). Moreover, to operate the motor the relay is used which converts the low voltage to high voltage. The microcontroller continuously monitors the water level in the tank through the sensors in the tank. 
* The sensors (S1, S2, S3, S4) are connected to pins P3.0, P3.1, P3.2, and P3.3. Whenever none of the sensors detects the water level, it indicates the water tank is empty. At this level, the microcontroller sends the “EMPTY” message to the LCD which was connected to the microcontroller through the data lines with P2.0 to P2.7, RS with P2.0, RW with P2.1, and EN with P2.2. 
* Also, at this level, the microcontroller sends the high pulse through P3.7 to the relay which converts the low voltage to high voltage and turns on the motor. As the motor starts, the water level starts to increase in the tank. 
* When the sensor S1 detects the water, it will send a signal to the microcontroller and the microcontroller send “1/4 FULL” message to the LCD. Similarly, when sensors S2 and S3 detect water the microcontroller sends “HALF” and “3/4 FULL” messages respectively to the LCD. 
* When the tank was completely filled and S4 detects the water level the microcontroller again sends a low signal to the relay to stop the motor as well as it also sends “FULL” message to the LCD. After that when water was utilized for any purpose and its level starts decreasing the microcontroller again sends the messages to LCD corresponding to the detected water level through sensors. The motor stays OFF till the water level reaches to “EMPTY” level again.
*	Also note that the supply is internally generated through the VCC pin in the AT89C51RD2 microcontroller in the Proteus simulation.
*	The HEX file of the code generated in Keil μVision is uploaded in the microcontroller in Proteus 8.11, which will link the code to the microcontroller for simulation.
